Open main1.py. Before running it, what do you expect this program to do? to say "Greetings" followed by a random color being presented

Now right click on the window and select “Run Python File in Terminal”. Click in the bottom panel, and answer the question. Describe what happened. 

What do you think the program did with what you typed? It printed the word greetigs and then created the question that most likely has an output, being colors.



Open main2.py. Before running it, describe how this is different than main1.py. It now has a 3rd line

What do you think the color = input() will do? The color input will select a random color to print

Run the program in the terminal and answer the question. Did the program do what you expected? I thought it would just generate a random color, but I entered a color and then it made an output of that color



Open main3.py. Before running it, describe how this is different than main2.py. It now has an if with a correct and wrong answer

What is happening on lines 11–14? if the color inputed is red then it is correct, otherwise it is incorrect and will have to try again

Why are lines 12 and 14 indented? to keep code working correctly and organized

Run the program and answer the question. What happens if you don’t capitalize Red? It will tell you that it is incorrect and try again

What does this tell you about "color"? color is given a specific name and must match correctly



Open main4.py. Before running it, describe how this is different than main2.py. there is now an "or" meaning that either Red or red is acceptable 

What problem is this trying to solve? the issue of being case sensitive

Run the program and answer the question. What happens if you use some other capitalization scheme (i.e., “RED” or “reD“)? It will still tell you that it is incorrect and to try again



Open main5.py. What do you expect line 11 to do? if it is spelled "red" then it does not matter capitalization

What problem is it trying to solve? the issue of case sensitivity 

Run the program and answer the question. What happens if you add spaces before or after the word (i.e., “  RED  “ or “ red”)? once again, it will tell you it is incorrect



Open main6.py. How is line 11 different than main5.py? there is now code that says .strip()

What would you guess .strip() is doing? allowing spaces either before or after the word "red"

Run the program and answer the question. Is there another way of writing “red” that will break this logic? spaces between the letters?



Open main7.py. Before running this program, how do you expect this to be different than main6.py? 

What is the purpose of line 11? 

Run the program and answer the question.



Open main8.py. What is the purpose of line 11? 

Why are lines 12–19 indented? 

Run the program. What would happen if line 12 were moved before line 11 (and no longer indented)? 

Make that change and run the program again. To end any Python program, you can type ctrl-c.



Open main9.py. What is happening on line 12? 

What is the purpose of “count”? 

What is happening on line 22? 

Run the program.


*Extra credit:* open main10.py. Add a comment to each line describing what it is doing (a comment follows a pound sign [#]). 

Commit your changes and push them back to the repository. 

Did you do the extra credit?